__Abstract__

Gonzalez, Kaszynski, Young and Stodghill originally set out to conduct a research experiment and report on RNA manipulation within a three-dimensional virtual setting. This was to be done for the efficiency manipulation in three-dimensions provided, as well as the novelty of creating an RNA structure simulator in a three-dimensional virtual setting. However, due to arguably unforeseen events, COVID-19 prevented the majority of the research process required, and the research team was forced to adapt to a different goal. The new goal for the research team was determined to be a similar, but much simpler experiment involving an open-source Unity game, virtual menu layouts, and conducted virtually using online resources. Alongside this, the paper includes a plethora of literature reviews to enhance their understanding of virtual menu systems and user interface navigation.


__Prototype__

For our revised project we chose to manipulate the menu system of a small open-source game. Originally one of our group members compiled a selection of games to select from, and our group chose SlimeOut; a game about raising a pet slime, with a combat feature and customization options, all guided by a plethora of menus. We chose this game primarily because it’s a game with relatively simple design, and it requires the user to interact with the menus fairly often. Unfortunately only a few of our group members could actually load the open-source project into their Unity Software, as there was an error with the software interacting with their graphics card, leading to several crashes. Our prototype of the game focuses on positioning the menu in different places across the screen.

__Methods__

Due to various circumstances, an actual experiment was not possible to conduct. However, if we were to have done the experiment here is the experiment design. We have a SlimeOut game created in Unity, there is an item menu and the team modified the menu placement of this items menu. As researchers, our curiosity was to see how different menu placements affect the players interaction with the game. Or if they are even aware of the menu. There were four menu arrangements. One was in the center of the screen fully visible, a square brown box with the label “items” on it. The second was at the bottom left part of the screen dark blue in color, rectangular and had the same design as the help menu, it also had a label “items” on it. The third menu placement did not have a label on it and it was the slime icon in the middle of the screen and when clicked the items menu would appear. The final menu placement was at the top left of the screen and was an alien icon of the game, it also had a label called “items” above the alien. The method used was repeated measures with the use of counterbalancing to control for possible confounding variables. The independent variable is menu placement and icon change. There are four levels for the independent variable. First level is a square brown items menu that has a label, located in the middle of the screen. Second level is a blue rectangle items menu that also has a label and is located in the bottom left of the screen, inline with the help menu. Third level is a slime icon items menu, that does not have a label and is located in the middle of the screen. Fourth level is an alien icon items menu that has a label and is located in the top left of the screen. The dependent variable is the use of the items menu, how good participants game-play is and how easy participants can find the items menu.

__Conclusion__

Menu systems and user interface navigation have been proven to play a critical role in the users experience of any system, specifically gaming systems within this context. After careful consideration of menu types, ranging from the layout of menus, to its formatting, and even its overall positioning, the team adopted a positionality approach for the intended experiment. This was due to unforeseeable circumstances surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, the team established four different menu options and conducted a survey to determine preference among the provided menu types. The results indicated that users prefer a separate brown items square menu over the latter options. In summary optimal conditions for user experience in gaming menus for 2D simple interfaces are consistent with previously conducted research. These conditions include menu placement in the center field of vision, minimal distance between options which improve accuracy, and the presence of menu labeling for clear direction. The team considers the characteristic flaw of the conducted research the inability to execute the intended experimental design due to national social distance efforts. Despite this inability, the team accumulated valuable information from participants and research alike on optimal menu system for 2D gaming interfaces. Future research should be directed towards the comparisons of 2D versus 3D menu systems as well as the menu formatting and size and its overall all effect on user experience and game acuity. 

__COVID-19 Changes__

The team was orignally planning on creating a 3D virtul reality game which replicated RNA folding which occurs during the DNA replication process. However, due to COVID-19 the team had to adjust their project. This new project focuses on menus within game development. 

